chapter 8 (#705)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/chapters/chapter8/non-sequential_pipelines_and_tuning.qmd

## Selectors and Parallel Pipelines

It is common in `r ref("Graph")`s for an operation to be applied to a subset of features.

> In `mlr3pipelines` this can be achieved in two ways (@fig-pipelines-select-affect): either by passing the column subset to the `affect_columns` hyperparameter of a `r ref("PipeOp")` (assuming it has that hyperparameter), which controls which columns should be affected by the `PipeOp`.
> Alternatively, one can use the `r ref("PipeOpSelect", index = TRUE)` operator to create operations in parallel on specified feature subsets, and then unite the result using `r ref("PipeOpFeatureUnion")`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `mlr3pipelines` this can be achieved in two ways (@fig-pipelines-select-affect): either by passing the column subset to the `affect_columns` hyperparameter of a `r ref("PipeOp")` (assuming it has that hyperparameter), which controls which columns should be affected by the `PipeOp`; or, one can use the `r ref("PipeOpSelect", index = TRUE)` operator to create operations in parallel on specified feature subsets, and then unite the result using `r ref("PipeOpFeatureUnion")`.
```

* `ppl("ovr", graph)`: `r index('One-versus-rest classification')` for converting `r index('multiclass classification', 'multiclass', parent = 'classification')` tasks into several binary classification tasks with one task for each class in the original. These tasks are then evaluated by the given `graph`, which should be a learner (or a pipeline containing a learner that emits a prediction). The predictions made on the binary tasks are combined into the multiclass prediction needed for the original task.
* `ppl("robustify")`: Performs common preprocessing steps to make any `Task` compatible with a given `Learner`. This pipeline is demonstrated in @sec-prepro-robustify.
* `ppl("stacking", base_learners, super_learner)`: `r index('Stacking')`, returned to in detail in @sec-pipelines-stack, is the process of using predictions from one or more models (`base_learners`) as features in a subsequent model (`super_learner`)

> * `ppl("targettrafo", graph)`: Create a `Graph` that transforms the prediction target of a task and ensures that any transformations applied during training (using the function passed to the `targetmutate.trafo` hyperparameter) is inverted in the resulting predictions (using the function passed to the `targetmutate.inverter` hyperparameter); an example is given in @sec-prepro-scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ppl("targettrafo", graph)`: Create a `Graph` that transforms the prediction target of a task and ensures that any transformations applied during training (using the function passed to the `targetmutate.trafo` hyperparameter) are inverted in the resulting predictions (using the function passed to the `targetmutate.inverter` hyperparameter); an example is given in @sec-prepro-scale.
```

bmr$aggregate()[, .(learner_id, classif.ce)]
```

In only a few lines of code, we took a weaker learner and turned it into a powerful model that we can see is comparable to the implementation in `ranger::ranger`.
In the next section, we will look at a second example, which makes use of cross-validation within pipelines.

> ### Stacking with `po("learner_cv")` {#sec-pipelines-stack}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stacking with po("learner_cv") {#sec-pipelines-stack}
```

`r index('Stacking')` (@Wolpert1992) is another very popular ensembling technique that can significantly improve predictive performance.
The basic idea behind stacking is to use predictions from multiple models (usually referred to as level 0 models) as features for a subsequent model (the level 1 model) which in turn combines these predictions (@fig-pipelines-stacking).

> A simple combination can be a linear model (maybe regularized if you have very many level 0 models), since a weighted sum of level 0 models is often plausible and good enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple combination can be a linear model (possibly regularized if you have many level 0 models), since a weighted sum of level 0 models is often plausible and good enough.
```

> However, non-linear level 1 models are also possible, and it is also an option for the level 1 model to access the input features besides the level 0 predictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though, non-linear level 1 models can also be used, and it is also possible for the level 1 model to access the input features as well as the level 0 predictions.
```

> Stacking can be built with more than two levels (both conceptually, and in `mlr3`) but we will limit ourselves to this simpler setup here, which also often works well enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stacking can be built with more than two levels (both conceptually, and in `mlr3`) but we limit ourselves to this simpler setup here, which often performs well.
```

include_multi_graphics("mlr3book_figures-27")
```

> For a stacking pipeline to work, it is necessary that the level 0 learners return predictions during the `$train()` phase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stacking pipelines depend on the level 0 learners returning predictions during the `$train()` phase.
```

This is possible in `mlr3pipelines` with `r ref("PipeOpLearnerCV", index = TRUE)`.

> During training, it performs a cross-validation and returns the out-of-sample predictions into the level 1 model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During training, this operator performs cross-validation and passes the out-of-sample predictions to the level 1 model.
```

> Using cross-validated predictions is also recommended in stacking since it reduces the risk of overfitting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using cross-validated predictions is recommended to reduce the risk of overfitting.
```

> We first create learners to produce the predictions that will be used as features, known as the "level 0" learners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first create the level 0 learners to produce the predictions that will be used as features.
```

> Like bagging, stacking also often uses 'weak' learners that might not perform well on their own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## `r index('Tuning')` Graphs {#sec-pipelines-tuning}

By wrapping a pipeline inside a `r ref("GraphLearner")`, we can tune it at two levels of complexity using `r mlr3tuning`:

1. Tuning of a fixed, usually sequential pipeline, where preprocessing is combined with a given learner.
  This simply means the joint tuning of any subset of selected hyperparameters of operations in the pipeline.
  Conceptually and also technically in `mlr3`, this is not much different from tuning a learner that is not part of a pipeline.

2. Tuning not only the hyperparameters of a pipeline, whose structure is not completely fixed in terms of its included operations, but also which concrete `r ref("PipeOp")`s should be applied to data.

>   This allows us to select these operations (e.g. which learner to use, which preprocessing to perform) in a data-driven manner and this is known as "`r index('Combined Algorithm Selection and Hyperparameter optimization')`"\index{CASH|see{combined algorithm selection and hyperparameter optimization}} (@Thornton2013).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This allows us to select these operations (e.g. which learner to use, which preprocessing to perform) in a data-driven manner known as "`r index('Combined Algorithm Selection and Hyperparameter optimization')`"\index{CASH|see{combined algorithm selection and hyperparameter optimization}} (@Thornton2013).
```

benchmark(design)$aggregate()[, .(learner_id, classif.ce)]
```

Tuning pipelines will usually take longer than tuning individual learners as training steps are often more complex and the search space will be larger.

> Therefore, parallelization is often appropriate (@sec-parallelization) and/or more efficient tuning methods for searching large tuning spaces such as `r index('Bayesian optimization', lower = FALSE)` (@sec-bayesian-optimization) become more attractive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, parallelization is often appropriate (@sec-parallelization) and/or more efficient tuning methods for searching large tuning spaces such as `r index('Bayesian optimization', lower = FALSE)` (@sec-bayesian-optimization).
```

    depends = branch.selection == "classif.kknn"))
)

instance = tune(tnr("grid_search"), tsk_mnist, graph_learner,
  rsmp("cv", folds = 3), msr("classif.ce"))

instance$archive$data[order(classif.ce)[1:5],
  .(brnchPO.selection, classif.kknn.k, branch.selection, classif.ce)]

> autoplot(instance)

Reviewer: Removed this and replaced by best because it prints very badly

Once again, the best configuration is a KNN learner with the Yeo-Johnson transform.
In practice `po("proxy")` offers complete flexibility and may be more useful for more complicated use cases, whereas `ppl("branch")` is more efficient in more straightforward scenarios.

### Hyperband with Subsampling {#sec-hyperband-example-svm}

{{< include ../../common/_optional.qmd >}}

In @sec-hyperband we learned about the `r index('Hyperband')` tuner and how it can make use of `r index('fidelity parameters')` to efficiently tune learners.
Now that you have learned about pipelines and how to tune them, in this short section we will briefly return to Hyperband to showcase how we can put together everything we have learned in this chapter to allow Hyperband to be used with any `Learner`.

> We previously saw how some learners have hyperparameters that can naturally be fidelity parameters, such as the number of trees in a random forest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We previously saw how some learners have hyperparameters that can act naturally as fidelity parameters, such as the number of trees in a random forest.
```

instance$result_x_domain
```

### Feature Selection with Filter Pipelines {#sec-pipelines-featsel}

{{< include ../../common/_optional.qmd >}}

In @sec-fs-filter-based we learnt about filter-based `r index('feature selection')` and how we can manually run a filter and then extract the selected features, often using an arbitrary choice of thresholds that were not tuned.
Now that we have covered pipelines and tuning, we will briefly return to feature selection to demonstrate how to automate filter-based feature selection by making use of `po("filter")`.

> `po("filter")` includes the `filter` construction argument which takes a `r ref("Filter")` object to be used as the filter method as well as a choice of parameters for different methods of selecting features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`po("filter")` includes the `filter` construction argument, which takes a `r ref("Filter")` object to be used as the filter method as well as a choice of parameters for different methods of selecting features:
```

In @sec-preprocessing we will study in more detail how to use pipelines for data preprocessing.

@tbl-api-pipelines-nonseq summarizes the most important classes, functions, and methods seen in this chapter.

| Class | Constructor/Function | Fields/Methods |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `r ref("Graph")` | `r ref("ppl()")` | `$train()`; `$predict()` |
| `r ref("Selector")` | `r ref("selector_grep()")`; `r ref("selector_type()")`; `r ref("selector_invert()")` | - |
| `r ref("PipeOpBranch")`; `r ref("PipeOpUnbranch")` | `po("branch")`; `po("unbranch")` | - |
| `r ref("PipeOpProxy")` | `po("proxy")` | - |

: Important classes and functions covered in this chapter with underlying class (if applicable), class constructor or function, and important class fields and methods (if applicable). {#tbl-api-pipelines-nonseq}

## Exercises

1. Create a graph that replaces all numeric columns that do not contain missing values with their PCA transform.
  Solve this in two ways, using `affect_columns` in a sequential Graph, and using `po("select")` in a non-sequential Graph.
  Train the graph on `tsk("pima")` to check your result.
  Hint: You may find `selector_missing()` useful.

> 2. The po("select")in @sec-pipelines-stack is necessary to remove redundant predictions (recall this is a binary classification task so we do not require predictions of both classes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `po("select")` in @sec-pipelines-stack is necessary to remove redundant predictions (recall this is a binary classification task so we do not require predictions of both classes).
```

  However, if this was a multiclass classification task, then using `selector_grep()` would need to be called with a pattern for *all* prediction columns that should be *kept*, which would be inefficient.
  Instead it would be more appropriate to provide a pattern for the single class to remove.

>   How would you do this, using the `Selector` functions provided by `mlr3pipelines`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  How would you do this using the `Selector` functions provided by `mlr3pipelines`?
```

>   Implement this and train the modified stacking pipeline on `tsk("wine")`, using `lrn("classif.multinom")` as level 1 learner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Implement this and train the modified stacking pipeline on `tsk("wine")`, using `lrn("classif.multinom")` as the level 1 learner.
```

3. How would you solve the previous exercise without explicitly naming the class you want to exclude, so that your Graph works for any classification task?
  Hint: look at the `selector_subsample` in @sec-pipelines-bagging.
4. (*) Create your own "minimal AutoML system" by combining pipelines, branching and tuning.
  It should allow automatic preprocessing and the automatic selection of a well-performing learning algorithm.

>   Both your PipeOps and models should be tuned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Both your `PipeOp`s and models should be tuned.
```
